Program Requirements

1    Use the Flight Search and Sheety API to populate your own copy of the Google Sheet with
     International Air Transport Association (IATA) codes for each city.
     Most of the cities in the sheet include multiple airports, you want the city code
     (not the airport code see here).

2    Use the Flight Search API to check for the cheapest flights from tomorrow to 6 months
     later for all the cities in the Google Sheet.

3    If the price is lower than the lowest price listed in the Google Sheet then send an SMS
        (or WhatsApp Message) to your own number using the Twilio API.

4    The SMS should include the departure airport IATA code, destination airport IATA code,
     flight price and flight dates.

Notes and Gotchas

Avoid hitting your rate limit on your trial accounts by not using too many destination
airports in your google Sheet (use 5 or at most 10)

Also, the test Amadeus test API does not include all airports.
You may not be able to retrieve prices for many routes flights.
Try and stick to popular airports while practicing.


Toggle these options when setting up with Sheety


Sheety API

Avoid making too many unnecessary requests with the Sheety API while testing your code.
The free tier for the Sheety API only allows 200 requests per month.

Step 2 - Use Sheety to Read and Write Data to the Google Sheet
Read and Write Data to your Google Sheet

The goal for this step is to read and write some data to the Google Sheet.
This way you can check if Sheety is working correctly before connecting to the Amadeus API
and getting the actual IATA codes for each city to the Google Sheet.

1. Go to the link for the starting Google Sheet and make your own copy of it.
Then create a new project on Sheety to work with your copy of the Google sheet.

Make requests using the Sheety API

2. Now use the Sheety API to GET all the data in that sheet and print it out.


3. Try importing pretty print with the line from pprint import pprint and printing the data
   out again using pprint() to see it formatted.

4. Pass everything stored in the "prices" key back to the main.py file and store it in a
variable called sheet_data, so that you can print the sheet_data from main.py



5. In main.py check if sheet_data contains any values for the "iataCode" key.
If not, then the IATA Codes column is empty in the Google Sheet.
In this case, pass each city name in sheet_data one-by-one to the FlightSearch class.
For now, the FlightSearch class can respond with "TESTING" instead of a real IATA code.
You should use the response from the FlightSearch class to update the sheet_data dictionary.


6. In the DataManager Class make a PUT request and use the row id from sheet_data to update
the Google Sheet with the IATA codes. (Do this using code).
HINT: Remember to check the checkbox to allow PUT requests in Sheety.


If successful, you should see the Google Sheet update as if by magic
(but it's not magic, it's just code):


IMPORTANT: The Google Sheet URL that you put into Sheety must be owned by the same
account as the Google account you used to sign into Sheety.


Enable Authentication with Sheety and use Environment Variables

We've previously learned about how to use environment variables and how to use
authentication. Let's bring those techniques into this capstone project.
First, enable Basic Authentication for your sheety project.



Create a .env file that will hold all your secrets like your username, password,
and token information.


You'll need to load the information in the .env file before you try to read from it.
Install the python-dotenv package to help with this.


With the package installed you can call:

    load_dotenv()



https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40216311/reading-in-environment-variables-from-an-environment-file